Hagar is welcome your back we're all back.
We're OK with it.
And speaking of coming back I want to revisit something we talked about earlier because now as we're
thinking about developing ideas and videos.
Well it's a good time for it.
Over those different types of videos and the first part of our video marketing section really wasn't
that long ago it mentioned six different types of videos that you could create ads explainer videos
product demos customer testimonials warfare videos and F.A. cues.
Now those are the only videos you can make in the world.
But those are six very common easy formats to tackle.
Now one thing we covered when we talked about this before was that the different kinds can they can
have different links different runtime to the videos as are usually very short of short attention spans
for ads.
We also hate ads so you have to make it short walk through on the other hand could be very very long.
Someone is going to watch one of those is probably dedicated to figuring out how to do whatever it is
that they were originally searching for.
Another thing is that the focus of each of these six videos is also a little bit different explainers
focus on explaining one important concept product demos and walkthrough.
They range from simple to very detailed and AFAIK use can be laser focused no matter what you're trying
to present.
There is probably a type of video for you but when you consider that these videos are part of a marketing
process you also have to think about the goals they're trying to accomplish when you create those videos.
Now before we talked a little bit about how you can have different goals for each video and kind of
took it from a micro level where we said well if you're looking for conversions Here's what you need
to do inside your video.
If you're looking for brand awareness and shares this is what you need to do inside.
But there's leisure.
We're going to talk about how you can see each type of video in a different light.
And the way you look at it we mentioned this slightly before is by looking at each type of video as
correlating exactly to one specific part in your marketing funnel.
Now I don't know every member of this before but we cover marketing funnels the concept of a funnel.
In general we like to think of things as funnels and marketing because that way we can segment them
into sections person sees my ad person clicks my ad person comes to my page person goes to my shopping
cart person buys.
We segment those out.
And then therefore we can see what's working and what's not.
Now Video Marketing works almost in an identical way.
Usually we're going to have a certain type of video when the person has never heard of us before.
And we need to bring the company to their awareness.
Then we have videos that convince them or generate interest then we have videos that convert them once
they've already established that they're interested and then we have videos that help them appreciate
the product.
So think about two types of videos.
We have the ads the explainer videos.
Now those two types of videos are good ones for reaching people early on in your relationship with them.
People don't know you yet or they might soon become aware of you through ads past that point.
Well they might finally understand what you do.
Or one specific feature of what you do through an explainer video.
So in other words explainers and ads make for good.
Top of the funnel content.
Now if I were looking at a funnel in memory remember this before the top of the funnel wine in the bottom
of the funnel is then the top of the funnels we're talking about.
When you have a large group of people that usually become aware of your product and then as they move
down fewer and fewer people make it to the next step the ones make it through the funnel.
Are the people that give you their sweet sweet gold generally speaking.
We look at funnels as at least three different phases Sometimes you'll see five or six but in general
all marketers agree that there's at least three phases.
And by focusing on each phase we can deliver different content and that allows us to push people through
it.
Like I said before the top of the funnel is what we call the awareness stage.
Now some might call it the learning stage when people are trying to find a solution to a problem they
have.
They're in search mode just beginning to gather info.
In other words they're just becoming aware of their needs and learning about the possible solutions
out there.
The middle of the funnel is called the consideration phage which some people also call the evaluation
stage when people have collected info.
They sort of narrowing down their choices to solve their problem and now they're evaluating the individual
options like the name says this is where they consider their choices.
Now the bottom of the funnel is the decision stage when you guessed it there are ultimately about to
make their decision but not before doing final research maybe personally talking to people asking for
furloughs because you're whatever choice they're about to make is the right one.
So this is also why some people call this the justification stage where you justify whatever Stygian
you're about to make.
So that's the marketing funnel from top to bottom awareness consideration and then decision are ads
and explainer videos absolutely live at that top of the funnel where people who are still trying to
figure out who we are and what we do and build awareness to get our name out there or explainers will
demonstrate our abilities and hopefully solidifying us as an option that customers will consider moving
on.
It's kind of in the I would say it's in the top middle section.
Does it all makes sense.
Not all marketing concepts are completely crystal clear.
All right so the saying goes a step further down the funnel in the middle stage the consideration stage
where people are narrowing down their options.
You need to deliver on whatever promises you made in the awareness stage.
So if you're as promised a product that was easy to use and some product demos could be used to prove
that hey it's easy to use or at a minimum have tax that repeats that if customers are looking for more
evidence that your product is worth considering customer testimonial videos are great for showing the
success people have had with your product or service product demos and testimony videos make for a great
middle of the funnel content when people are evaluating options and looking for evidence to help them
reach their decision.
It's not good.
Top of the funnel content because someone's never heard of your service and they saw a video with one
person talking about a problem they had and how a software solved it or whatever your product is out
of context it really would make any sense.
And then finally at the last stage of the funnel the decision stage you're looking to help customers
justify their choice.
So a walk through video could be a good option here.
A longer more detailed look at your product might be the thing people need to finally get them to choose
something.
It's not unlike taking a test drive when you're considering a car.
You don't test drive something as soon as you see it but after you've narrowed down some choices and
you are ready to see how this thing handles maybe you can try it out for yourself.
So walk through videos offer a similar kind of look at the product.
You also sometimes see walkthrough as later on for people who've already bought the product.
But still people find their way to the walkthrough as before they buy.
And I think videos can be especially good at justifying a purchase specially if you create a series
of them for new customers like getting started.
The video would help explain how to solve a common problem by all means create it and make it available
in an obvious place.
The fact we have a series of fake videos available is a great selling point showing you're interested
in supporting your customers before and after they make a purchase.
So you can see from talking through these three phases of the marketing funnel that will all these videotapes
whose stuff can be good ones they might be most effective at different times in your relationship with
the customer.
If you can get a variety of videos and make sure customers and each of the three phases have enough
content to satisfy their needs they'll be well supported throughout the entire process and it'll help
you reach your goals.
Another thing worth saying is that in some cases where you've already built up some kind of content
on your web site maybe you've already started to explore ads you can use this marketing funnel and video
marketing concept to do almost spot treatment.
What I mean by that is let's say you have ads and let's say you have enough awareness you have 100 people
coming to your site day but you just notice that people are stuck in the consideration phase.
Well if you just notice that not a lot of people are converting or getting to the point where they're
very serious about purchasing it going to your car going to the actual pricing pages things like that.
Well you might focus on some of that middle of the funnel stuff get some customer testimonial videos
up those could be a clincher.
Similarly if maybe your ads just aren't generating enough awareness.
But everything else seems to be working fine.
Well perhaps you can inject just a little video into making your ads be more successful.
OK guys it's an important concept that I wanted to make sure you guys could see how it lines up and
why different types of videos are just use at different points and for different reasons.
All right guys I'll see you in the next lecture.